
## CountdownEvent ##

> CountdownEvent - 线程、任务同步类。线程或任务一直阻塞到 CountdownEvent 的计数为 0 为止


1. 当有新的需要同步的线程或任务产生时，就调用 AddCount 增加 CountdownEvent 的计数
2. 当有线程或任务到达同步点时，就调用 Signal 函数减小 CountdownEvent 的计数
3. 当 CountdownEvent 的计数为 0 时，就表示所有需要同步的任务已经完成。通过 Wait 来阻塞线程

		private string _result = "";
	
	    private static readonly object objLock = new object();
	
	    public void Run()
	    {
	      // CountdownEvent(int initialCount) - 实例化一个 CountdownEvent
	      //     int initialCount - 初始计数
	      using (var countdown = new CountdownEvent(1))
	      {
	        Thread t1 = new Thread(() => ThreadWork("aaa", TimeSpan.FromSeconds(1), countdown));
	        // 增加 1 个计数
	        countdown.AddCount();
	        t1.Start();
	
	        Thread t2 = new Thread(() => ThreadWork("bbb", TimeSpan.FromSeconds(2), countdown));
	        countdown.AddCount();
	        t2.Start();
	
	        Thread t3 = new Thread(() => ThreadWork("ccc", TimeSpan.FromSeconds(3), countdown));
	        countdown.AddCount();
	        t3.Start();
	
	        // 减少 1 个计数
	        countdown.Signal();
	        // 阻塞当前线程，直到 CountdownEvent 的计数为零
	        countdown.Wait();
	      }
	
	      Console.WriteLine(_result);
	    }
	
	    private void ThreadWork(string name, TimeSpan sleepTime, CountdownEvent countdown)
	    {
	      Thread.Sleep(sleepTime);
	
	      _result += "hello: " + name + " " + DateTime.Now.ToString("HH:mm:ss");
	      _result += "\n";
	
	      // 减少 1 个计数
	      countdown.Signal();
	    }	

## Semaphore ##

> Semaphore 限制可同时访问某一资源或资源池的线程数。

	// A semaphore that simulates a limited resource pool.
	//
	private static Semaphore _pool;
	
	// A padding interval to make the output more orderly.
	private static int _padding;
	
	public void Run()
	{
	// Create a semaphore that can satisfy up to three
	// concurrent requests. Use an initial count of zero,
	// so that the entire semaphore count is initially
	// owned by the main program thread.
	//
	_pool = new Semaphore(0, 3);
	
	// Create and start five numbered threads. 
	//
	for (int i = 1; i <= 5; i++)
	{
		Thread t = new Thread(new ParameterizedThreadStart(Worker));
	
		// Start the thread, passing the number.
		//
		t.Start(i);
	}
	
	// Wait for half a second, to allow all the
	// threads to start and to block on the semaphore.
	//
	Thread.Sleep(500);
	
	// The main thread starts out holding the entire
	// semaphore count. Calling Release(3) brings the 
	// semaphore count back to its maximum value, and
	// allows the waiting threads to enter the semaphore,
	// up to three at a time.
	//
	Console.WriteLine("Main thread calls Release(3).");
	_pool.Release(3);
	
	Console.WriteLine("Main thread exits.");
	}
	
	private static void Worker(object num)
	{
	// Each worker thread begins by requesting the
	// semaphore.
	Console.WriteLine("Thread {0} begins " +
						"and waits for the semaphore.", num);
	_pool.WaitOne();
	
	// A padding interval to make the output more orderly.
	int padding = Interlocked.Add(ref _padding, 100);
	
	Console.WriteLine("Thread {0} enters the semaphore.", num);
	
	// The thread's "work" consists of sleeping for 
	// about a second. Each thread "works" a little 
	// longer, just to make the output more orderly.
	//
	Thread.Sleep(1000 + padding);
	
	Console.WriteLine("Thread {0} releases the semaphore.", num);
	Console.WriteLine("Thread {0} previous semaphore count: {1}",
		num, _pool.Release());
	}

tools都是基于lock的封装，暂时就不深究了。

----------
since:5/20/2019 3:08:51 PM 

direction:并发包之tools限制